Sandi, you're gonna love me.
I've nailed the theme this week.
I'm Lawrence of Arabia.
Oh, Lawrence of Arabia,
conqueror of the great Arabian Desert.
You think it's "desert week".
Okay. It's actually, er, "dessert week".
[sighs] One "S"
and my whole costume's ruined.
Save it for the nativity play.
Let's start the show.
[both] Welcome
to The Great British Baking Show.
What am I gonna do with the camel?
Well, put it in Paul's trailer.
-He's the back end.
-Thought it looked lumpy.
-[Sandi] Now...
-[siren blaring]
[Sandi] ...desserts...
It's all very stressful, isn't it?
[Sandi] ...are baked, layered...
[Alice] God, this is not fun.
-[Sandi] ...and transformed...
-[exclaims]
[Sandi] ...into explosive bombes.
Things can happen between there and here.
[Sandi] Who will light the fuse?
How does this work?
[Sandi] And who will go out with a bang?
It looks like something
straight from a 1970s sweet trolley.
[all laughing]
[theme music playing]
[chirping]
[David] So few!
I made it to week six! Yay, week six!
[Michael] Feels a bit weird.
There's not many of us left.
Being picked off one by one.
It's like an Agatha Christie novel.
[David] This was the week
I've been terrified of.
I am not a dessert person.
I don't make dessert-y things. No. No.
Hello, bakers.
Welcome back to dessert week,
and your Signature Challenge,
a layered meringue cake.
Now, it needs be a cake
made of meringue with layers.
-Yeah, let's not get too technical here.
-[Noel] Really?
[Sandi] Basically, it needs to be
a large cake,
the sort you might share with friends.
[Noel] There needs to be
a minimum of three layers,
sandwiched with some kind of filling.
[Sandi] You have 2 hours and 45 minutes.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake!
I've made Pavlovas.
Never made a meringue cake before,
but they're one and the same.
They're cousins.
Or, like, step-sisters.
My mum makes a Pavlova every time
me and my sister go home in the summer.
[Priya] It's quite a nice
dinner-party kind of thing.
We used to have dinner parties,
then we had kids.
We want the bakers, really, to create
a beautifully aesthetic meringue cake.
You want definition. You want peaks.
You want a bit of shape to your meringue.
So when you look at it, you think,
"Wow, I wanna eat that."
[Prue] It seems quite simple
because they can all make meringue,
they can all whip cream,
they all know about flavour.
But the danger is, because it's simple,
they will want to overcomplicate it.
-[Paul] Morning, David.
-[Prue] Hello, David.
Tell us all about your meringue cake.
[David] I'm doing mixed spice,
and each meringue is flavoured
with a different spice.
This one is clove.
This one is cinnamon,
and this one is star anise.
Do you think each one of those
go together?
-[laughs]
-Why would you ask that question?
I think they do.
[Sandi] Fresh figs and berries
in a vanilla cream
will fill David's spiced meringue layers.
-Have you given it to any of your friends?
-No.
-You've only practised this on yourself?
-Yeah.
But I do like these mixed spice flavours.
I think he's shooting for the moon.
I think this could either be genius
or a disaster.
-But I admire that bravery.
-[chuckles]
I'm fearful about the meringue,
which is the bulk of the challenge.
So, in Le Touquet,
which is a little coastal town in France,
there's loads of lovely patisseries.
And one of them does this lovely pistachio
and chocolate mille-feuille thing.
And so, this is a nice little version
of that.
[Noel] Four giant layers
of pistachio meringue
filled with chocolate crème pâtissière
and fresh raspberry jam,
topped with ornate chocolate work
is Henry's opening bid to keep his place
in the competition.
Is it weird now there's just
seven of you? Is it strange?
It's like a lunge between each bench now.
-That's how you can tell.
-You were all kind of close together.
If you can do two lunges
between each bench,
you know you've got to the final.
Ooh! I see.
-We're gonna measure by lunge.
-Yeah.
[Michael vocalising]
♪ Awkward bit of waiting time ♪
Waiting on my nuts.
[Sandi] Most of the bakers have chosen
to flavour their meringue with nuts...
Always waiting on nuts.
It's just my life.
In a nutshell, as it were.
[Sandi] ...but one of them
has opted for a different approach.
-Good morning, Rosie.
-Hello.
Right, tell us
all about your meringue cake.
Salted caramel French meringue.
And that's gonna be topped
with a raspberry-and-lime curd,
and then a chocolate ganache.
-You're using fruit and chocolate.
-[Rosie] Yeah.
You've got the tartness of the curd
to cut through it, because otherwise,
everything's quite sweet.
[Sandi] Rosie's meringues
will be flavoured with fresh raspberries,
raspberry cream, salted caramel,
a raspberry-and-lime curd,
and a decadent chocolate ganache.
How confident are you feeling
at the moment?
Last week was a massive confidence hit.
-You thought you were going home.
-[Prue] She did.
[Rosie] I was absolutely certain.
I didn't think there was any way,
any way, I wasn't going.
Obviously, I want to prove
that I earned my place here.
-Good luck, then, Rosie. Thank you.
-[Rosie] Thank you very much.
[Alice] It's an arm workout and a half.
[Sandi] Rosie isn't the only baker...
Should've gone to the gym
this week, shouldn't I?
[Sandi] ...going nut-free.
[Alice] I'm doing a Black Forest gateau
meringue cake.
I played around with some nuts in there,
but I wanted to stick to the...
-[Prue] Nut-free.
-...true Black Forest. Yeah.
[Sandi] Alice's chocolate meringue layers
will build to a Black Forest homage,
featuring chocolate mousse,
cherry buttercream and cherry compote.
What cherries did you use for the compote?
-Erm, so, these.
-[Prue] Just ordinary sweet cherries.
So they've got quite a zing to them.
The flavours of a Black Forest gateau
in a meringue cake should work.
It should work beautifully.
-All right, well, good luck.
-Thank you.
[Sandi] Another baker giving a timeless
classic the meringue treatment...
Ooh!
[Sandi] ...is Steph.
So, I am making... Hmm. "Eton elegance".
There's all the flavours in there.
Pistachios, raspberries, white chocolate,
they're the main flavours.
[Sandi] Steph's pistachio-rich meringue
will be the foundation
of her Eton mess upgrade,
filled with raspberries
folded into white chocolate cream cheese,
it'll be topped
with candied pistachio spikes.
-You have been Star Baker, right?
-I know.
-Twice in a row.
-[Steph] Oh, don't.
I forever feel like
there's impending doom on the horizon.
-Yeah, me too.
-Do you?
Yeah. I mean,
how did I get hired for this show?
I don't blame you for those feelings.
-Is that why you tell me to go away?
-Yeah.
[Priya] Okay.
Ooh.
I am just piping layers of meringue.
[Alice] I'm doing four discs,
and then, if one does break,
I've got three at least.
[Rosie] I'm doing caramel now.
Just use a cocktail stick to swirl it.
They're going in for an hour at 130.
[David] Meringue you do
for a very low temperature,
so it's really just drying it out
over time.
The challenge is to make sure
that's marshmallow-y and not just...
chew.
[Noel] With meringues baking...
Right, next.
[Noel] ...attention turns
to the all-important fillings.
So, every Christmas, when I was younger,
there would be a chocolate orange
at the bottom of our stockings.
Chocolate and orange
are the best flavours together, I reckon.
Not a Chakraverty Christmas
without a chocolate orange.
[Sandi] Michael's making
an orange crème au beurre filling,
and his cake will be decorated
with caramelised hazelnut spikes,
and smothered in a dark chocolate
and orange ganache with a kick.
-There's booze in the ganache as well.
-[Noel] Oh.
Little bit of orange liqueur
in the ganache.
-Prue, it's your birthday.
-Well, it might be my birthday.
-It's very good.
-[Noel] Good luck.
[Sandi] Michael's not the only baker
reaching for the bottle.
[Priya] This is some Amaretto crème pât.
I don't drink,
but it's my husband's favourite drink.
[Sandi] Priya's husband Sean's
tipple of choice
will complement layers of almond dacquoise
topped with a blueberry crème au beurre.
[Paul] Your flavours
are generally spot-on.
-Where you lack sometimes is the timing.
-[Priya] Yes.
-I know...
-[Paul] Please remember that
-on every single bake.
-I'm gonna buy you a watch.
I know. I have a watch,
it's in the drawer.
[Sandi] One hour remaining.
[Steph] I feel, like, really sick.
-[Rosie] They're firm.
-[Priya] Yay!
They're crispy on the outside
and slightly chewy in the middle.
[Henry] Oh, they're huge!
Oh, they're so big.
You and your massive meringues.
-[Henry] Bulbous.
-[Michael] Bulbous!
-Oven is going off.
-They don't like temperature change,
so I'm gonna let the oven cool down.
My meringues in there,
otherwise, they crack.
[Noel] During
the daunting cooling process...
How does this work? Oh, it's on.
[Noel] ...the bakers must use every minute
to perfect their meringue
cake's decoration.
This is gonna be the cherry blossom.
It's, like, really fragile
'cause it's made of meringue.
Oh, my God, look at my hands.
[Henry] I'm trying to blowtorch this
to cut out circles.
I'm tempering chocolate,
but I'm pretty certain it hasn't worked.
Sandi, do you know anything
about tempering chocolate?
-[Sandi] Obviously.
-Chocolate with a temper.
[Sandi] It depends what you've said to it.
-Dark chocolate, pretty even-tempered.
-[Sandi] Yeah.
Milk chocolate, furious.
White chocolate... [exclaims angrily]
There you go, everything you need to know
about tempering chocolate.
You should do a baking show.
[Rosie] What the bloody hell is that?
I'm doing ganache.
It's slightly grainy.
It's not awful, but it's slightly grainy,
and that's not what I want.
Bakers, you have 30 minutes left.
I don't know why it goes grainy.
I'm gonna make that again,
'cause I don't know what on earth
has gone on there.
Just when to take out the meringues.
Oh, I don't like this at all.
There's definitely a less theatrical way
to do that.
[Steph] Ah. I'm getting stressed.
[Michael] Hazelnut spikes.
[Alice] Black Forest gateau
it needs chocolate, it needs cherries.
[Henry] Look at that, it's voluptuous.
[Priya] So, I've got crème au beurre,
which'll be blueberry-flavoured.
Blue food is weird, isn't it?
[David] I'm stressed.
Some people really dislike bold spices.
[Henry] The moment of truth.
[Sandi] Baked meringue
is incredibly fragile.
[Alice] I've just got to be delicate
with them.
[Sandi] Stacking it...
[Steph] Oh, God. Oh, God.
[Sandi] ...and then weighing it down
with fillings could be disastrous.
[Rosie] I'm a bit scared.
If this works, I may strip.
Actual miracle.
-Bakers...
-You have...
-...ten...
-...minutes.
-Even closer?
-Even closer.
-[Michael] That's not a lot of minutes.
-Running out time!
Ooh! I may or may not get this done.
Oh!
Raspberry-and-lime curd, last minute...
[Henry] It's quite a stiff boy, this.
It's a wee bit messy, but aren't we all
a bit messy sometimes?
[Alice] Oh, yeah! All four layers.
I've remade the ganache.
I can't cover it all on the sides,
got so much space between the layers.
[Michael] This is
my chocolate-orange ganache.
This is the final layer.
[Henry] It's quite big.
Bakers, Sandi said you have one minute.
God.
I haven't got a watch,
it could be three hours.
[Steph] Oh, God, I'm shaking.
[David] And that's ready.
[Michael] I'm done.
Sieve. I just want a sieve.
[Henry] I don't want
to overgild the lily, as it were.
Bakers, your time is... up.
I finished something nearly on time. Yay!
Michael, what are you doing?
Sorry, I was getting the chocolate off me.
-[Sandi] It looked weird.
-[Michael laughs]
[Alice and Michael laughing]
[Noel] The bakers' meringue cakes
will now face the judgment
of Paul and Prue.
-Hello, David.
-Hey, love.
[Prue] It looks like a painting.
I think it looks absolutely lovely.
Nice interior.
[Prue] This is when I'm going to get
this layered taste.
The bottom one is clove, then star anise
and then cinnamon.
[Prue] Mm.
The dominant thing is spice.
Clove, particularly.
It just does not taste as delicious
as it looks.
[Paul] It's been overwhelmed
by the spices.
The meringue is such a beautiful thing...
-It's sort of heartbreaking.
-It is. It is.
-How could you!
-For something so beautiful,
what have you done?
[Sandi] Look what you've done
to my people!
Next time, I'll pare it back.
-Thank you, David.
-[David] Cool. Thank you.
[exhales sharply]
I really think the colour
of the blueberry cream
-is horrible.
-Okay.
[Prue] I know it's partly because
we don't eat a lot of mauve food,
but it is such a particularly
nasty version of mauve.
-[Paul chuckles]
-Wow.
-It doesn't look appetising.
-Yeah.
-Is that Amaretto?
-[Priya] Yeah.
It's a little bit too much.
I think you've slightly overbaked
the meringue.
Yeah.
I would've liked to have seen a bit more
elaborate piping on the outside.
[Rosie] Yeah.
[Prue] It looks a bit wonky.
It's absolutely delicious.
I think your layers are fantastic.
Got a little bit of sharpness coming
from the curd, the raspberries are nice.
However, the chocolate doesn't go with it
because it's too thick.
It just looks so charming
with your basket handle.
-[Alice laughs]
-[Prue] Very attractive.
[Paul] You've certainly got the colours.
It's quite purple.
-[Paul laughs]
-It was meant to be cherry.
Your chocolate comes through,
but then you're sort of hunting
for another big flavour to come in
and it just doesn't arrive.
[Prue] It's there if you get a cherry,
but I think you needed
a morello cherry
or something with more punch.
-Okay, thank you. Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
Well, it looks very neat,
and I congratulate you
on your little sticks.
[softly] There's too much chocolate.
-What did you say?
-There's too much chocolate
on the outside.
Don't tell him.
[Paul] The meringue's
sweated slightly inside
with it being en croute
almost with the chocolate.
'Cause all the liquid is then soaked
into the meringue
-and it's softened it up.
-Okay.
-Chocolate, it dominates the whole thing.
-[Michael] Okay.
But I have to say, I like the flavours.
They're very obvious,
there's orange and chocolate.
And what's better than that?
It's amazing you managed to get
that much chocolate on your apron.
[all laughing]
It does look beautiful. It's neat.
It's very professional-looking.
[Prue] It's lovely-looking
and quite original.
And it really looks like
a celebration cake.
-[Prue] Oh, that looks gorgeous.
-That looks yummy.
[Paul] The raspberry comes through.
You do get the flavour of the nuts,
but you needed to lighten that out,
just take some nuts out,
-and it would've been much nicer to eat.
-Okay.
It tastes lovely. It looks lovely.
-And there are too many nuts.
-Thank you.
-Too many nuts.
-Never too many nuts.
I like the way the meringue
has really risen,
-but it is slightly messy.
-[Henry] It's a little rugged.
[Paul] The one on the top
should've been at the bottom.
The one on the bottom should be
the second from the top.
-[Henry] Yeah.
-[Paul] And then these two
should be inverted and put on top of that.
So that you end up with...
-with a slight rise to the top.
-Yeah.
Design-wise, it's wanting.
[Paul] I like the nutty meringue.
-The texture's great 'cause it's light.
-Oh, lovely.
Raspberry jam is the saviour of this,
because everything seems to flow with it.
-[Prue] Yeah, it's good.
-You didn't make the jam, did you?
-I did.
-You did make the jam?
I did. The cheek.
I would take him away now if I can.
-[Sandi] Come away.
-Thank you.
Thank you.
That went so well. [chuckles]
Oh. If you'd seen me
in the kitchen yesterday, it was hell.
And today, oh, that was good.
That wasn't good, was it?
But I think everyone
had a bit of a grilling.
They said the chocolate didn't go with
raspberries and cream, and I don't agree.
I mean, chocolate and raspberries
and cream?
[Noel] After a disappointing
Signature Challenge,
the bakers now face one of the most
complex Technical Challenges
ever to be seen in the tent.
Hello, lovely bakers.
Welcome to your Technical Challenge,
which today has been set for you
by the delight that is Prue.
This is all about the detail
and precise measurements.
Oh!
So helpful. As ever,
this will be judged blind.
I'm gonna ask you two lovelies
to skedaddle.
-Off you pop.
-Aw. What they up to?
I think Prue is gonna laminate
some of Paul's recipes.
-They're getting quite dog-eared.
-[Sandi] Fair enough.
Today, Prue would like you to make
six identical perfectly-layered verrines.
-Verrine, of course, the French word...
-[Sandi] For?
-I don't know that bit.
-That's all you've got.
-It's a French word.
-Okay. Any thoughts?
I think it roughly translates
as some stuff pushed into a fiddly glass.
Okay, basically,
it's a layered dessert in a glass.
And today, your verrines should consist
of layers of a mango compote,
a creamy coconut panna cotta,
a fresh raspberry jelly,
topped with a coconut and lime streusel
and a short sablé biscuit.
You've got two-and-a-half hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
[Sandi] Bake!
[Noel] Despite the verrines' complexity,
Prue's recipe is as basic as ever.
Prue's treated us this week, hasn't she?
No, I haven't ever heard of a...
What is it? "Verrine". No.
This is definitely Prue,
not Paul, isn't it?
If it was Paul, it'd be Angel Delight.
Verrines, then, Prue.
-They're pretty.
-They are beautiful.
[Prue] We have got a mango compote,
coconut panna cotta and a raspberry jelly.
And then the streusel
with a few mango bits on top.
[Paul] And you've obviously topped it
with a sablé biscuit as well.
-[Prue] Yeah.
-Now, the biscuit is beautifully baked.
-We'll listen to this snap.
-[Prue] That's lovely.
[Paul] Where are the key elements
where they could go wrong on this?
Not remembering to chill everything
between each layer.
If you don't get the measurements right,
you won't get the layers right.
[Paul] I've nearly finished mine.
I'm trying to go slowly.
You know when you're a child
-and you eat it too fast and regret it?
-Yeah.
Don't worry, we've got seven more to try.
Good. [chuckles]
Right. So, the sablé biscuit...
"Make sablé dough, roll thin."
What does it mean, "sablé"? Salad? What?
It means "sand", I believe, in French.
Next, six circles.
"Cut out a circle just out of centre
of the middle of the biscuit and chill."
[Alice] Chill.
If only we could chill.
Did you know what this was?
Once they said it was
that dessert that's in a glass,
I think, "I've definitely had that."
The problem is, by dessert,
you're usually quite drunk, so...
-[David] Could be anything, couldn't it?
-[Noel] Could be anything.
"For the mango compote,
blitz the mango to a puree,
pop into a small pan, add the glucose.
Pour equal amounts in the glasses."
And I've been practicing my times table.
I worked out that's 30 grams.
And if that's wrong,
I'm gonna be really embarrassed.
[Alice] I'm just gonna be really precise.
My students would be so proud.
"Chill until set."
-[Sandi] Are you all right, Priya?
-I think so, yeah.
It's just you're not speaking,
and that's so rare.
I... What are you trying to say?
Does she talk the whole time? Yeah.
Not the whole time! Look, I don't get out.
It's all CBeebies and Lego in my house.
I don't get out.
-Is that what it is?
-Yeah.
-So thrilled to be with other adults.
[Michael] Now on the coconut panna cotta.
I'm following the rules,
so if it's wrong, it's Prue's fault.
I haven't made a panna cotta before.
New territory, again.
[Rosie] I've not done
a panna cotta before.
[sniggering]
[David] It is just a set milk dessert,
but this one's coconut.
[Alice] Okay, right.
Chilling this in a water-bath.
I'd quite like to chill in a water-bath.
[David] This has to be chilled
because if it goes
onto the mango compote warm,
it's going to melt the mango compote.
Jesus, a lot of ice.
[Noel] Hello.
Your jumper reminds me of Where's Wally?
I really wanna find Wally.
Where's Wally? That is not the look
I'm going for...
-Damn it, sorry.
-I was trying to be cool.
[Sandi] Hello, and welcome
to the Baking Show,
where I've been teaching Noel
how to make these.
How are you getting on, Noel?
Is that what they're
supposed to look like?
Wow, so close.
[Noel] I think that one's very successful.
Okay. Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Alice] So now I need to bake my biscuits.
I don't know how long
sablé biscuits take to do.
[Steph] Maybe eight minutes.
[Noel] Should I show Paul?
Maybe the next batch.
-Next batch.
-Yes.
Gloves are good, though, aren't they?
Like the lion in Wizard of Oz.
"Put them up! Put them up!"
[Sandi] Prue has demanded perfectly baked
sablé on top of the verrine...
[David] One more minute.
[Sandi] ...and perfectly even layers
inside it.
[whispers] Two hundred divided by six.
Forty by three is?
Ten... No, forty by six.
I'm gonna pour 20 millilitres
into each one.
I want really nice, even layers.
So, I need these layers
to be defined... and equal.
[Steph] I hope it's all right.
I don't have a clue.
[Henry] I should've weighed this...
but I didn't have the patience.
"Chill until set."
Mustn't drop these sodding things.
[timer beeping]
[Michael] Another three minutes
on the biscuits...
So I'm making the raspberry jelly.
I'm still waiting for my panna cotta
to cool enough. Crunch time, isn't it?
Last layer, don't wanna mess it up.
-Bakers...
-[Noel] You have half an hour left.
[Sandi] If the panna cotta isn't set...
Oh, my f... Oh. [exhales heavily]
[Sandi] ...the raspberry jelly
will fall straight through it.
[Steph] Wish me luck.
[David] You're not gonna know
until it sets.
If it sets.
I'm gonna start with a teaspoon...
Oh, no! That wasn't good.
It's gone through my panna cotta,
so they're going back in the fridge.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
Fifteen minutes.
Unlike me, I've got 15 years.
I mean, I probably could get out of this,
but... [chuckles]
maybe I'll get longer.
Right. "For the streusel,
make the streusel dough crumble."
Wasn't one of the children in
The Sound of Music called Streusel?
Liesl. Liesl, not streusel.
Sugar, makes it sweet.
Right, "Take the streusel
onto two lined baking sheets and bake."
[Henry] Two minutes, maximum.
That will not take long.
-[glasses clatter]
-[Alice exclaims]
[Michael] It says,
"Spread a layer of streusel."
I'm on it. I'm on it. [exhales heavily]
I'm trying to make it as even as I can,
right out to the edges.
[Henry] Right, diced mango.
Okay. I'm doing it little by little.
[Michael] The layers seem very distinct.
There's a couple of messy ones,
but I'm just gonna put them at the back.
Like they won't notice that.
"Decorate the biscuits
and sit on top of the glass."
Bloody hell, they only just fit.
Look at that.
[Henry] These don't fit on the glasses.
Don't tell me this now doesn't fit
on top of here.
Bakers, you have one minute.
What?
Oh, they can, they can.
They really want to.
[Alice sighs] Are you joking?
[David] Oh, it's all very stressful,
isn't it?
Come on, darling. Whoa. [exclaims]
Oh, I feel alive.
Stay.
No-one move in this vicinity.
-[Michael] Shaky hands.
-[Priya] Just move that. There we go.
[Sandi] Okay!
[stutters] I'm stuck. Oh.
[Sandi] Time is up.
Please bring your verrines
up to the table.
Er, this is... I can't actually do this.
[Priya] No-one breathe.
-[Priya] I can barely breathe.
-I'm behind you, Priya.
Mine are shaking, Henry. You can do it.
They are very precariously balanced.
[Michael] Careful, Henry.
Priya, make way.
Henry, you realise you've worn a red tie
with a red shirt.
-Not now.
-Now is not the moment, darling.
[Henry] This is ridiculous.
[Noel] Prue and Paul are expecting
verrines layered with mango compote,
coconut panna cotta, raspberry jelly,
and topped with a sablé biscuit.
If they taste as good as they look,
we'll be very pleased.
You've got the chocolate.
Biscuit breaks very easily.
[Prue] That's very nice sablé.
-Textures are all good.
-Mmm. Tastes lovely.
[Paul] Moving on.
The layers are a bit flatter, aren't they?
I think those biscuits
are very slightly overbaked.
-[Paul] But they taste okay.
-Mmm.
I must say, this is so delicious,
I'm really enjoying it. [chuckles]
[Paul] Okay. Bit uneven on the biscuit,
again, but very delicate.
[Prue] They are lovely and thin.
The top jelly's not quite set, is it?
-[Prue] And it's a little bit wavy.
-[Paul] Yeah, it is.
Now, these look nice.
The panna cotta's a bit thicker,
-but it could be even thicker.
-[Prue] Mm.
That mango is still not quite set.
[Paul] Yeah. Okay.
[Prue] It's a bit too much streusel.
-[Paul] Where's the mango?
-[Prue] Oh.
Didn't go in there.
-That jelly is runny.
-Hm.
[Paul] It's not set.
[Prue] Right.
[Paul] The biscuit does sit
in there nicely.
It tastes good, but it is slightly thick.
And down the bottom,
same problem of not straight lines.
[Paul] Okay. Texture's good.
See, the lines are quite good.
[Prue] The lines are excellent.
Flavour's excellent.
Streusel's very good.
[Paul] The jelly's set
quite nicely actually.
That's quite smooth.
Interesting.
[Sandi] Prue and Paul will now rank
the bakers from worst to best.
In seventh place, we have this one.
Who's that?
Priya, it tasted delicious...
but yours was not quite set
and there was too much streusel.
Okay.
In sixth spot is this one.
Look at those lines down the bottom.
It's about being even.
[Sandi] Rosie came fifth.
Henry fourth, and Steph came third.
And in second spot is...
[all laughing]
[Paul] This came down
to how neat the lines were,
because pretty much everything
in there was spot-on.
Which leaves us with this one.
-Alice.
-[all clapping]
[Steph] They looked great.
Alice, this was as near perfect as we got.
[all clapping]
It was so good!
I was so happy,
but I was also so surprised.
Fourth time second in the Technical.
Never gonna be first.
[Michael] I know I'm in the bottom.
Obviously I'll be upset to go.
I feel like perhaps dessert week
just isn't for me.
Oh!
It does mean that there's
more pressure on tomorrow.
We'll have to wait and see.
-[Priya] Well done!
-[indistinct conversations]
[Noel] There is just one challenge
remaining in dessert week.
[Sandi] So, interesting day yesterday,
because the Signature,
by and large, disappointing.
-The Technical, by and large, thrilling.
-Brilliant.
At this stage, I always feel like Steph,
she's around about Star Baker level.
[Paul] Yeah, and I would say the same
about Alice as well.
Has anyone ever got it
three times in a row?
I think it'd be a second.
Coming into the Showstopper, I think,
really, Michael and Priya
have to save themselves today.
[Prue] Come on, Priya, stop talking,
'cause you're always late.
-Her baking career...
-It's going to get worse.
...is like my school report.
"Turns up late and never stops talking."
[all laughing]
Morning, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your Showstopper Challenge.
Today, Paul and Prue would love you
to make a celebratory bombe dessert.
It must be moulded into a semi-spherical
or fully spherical shape.
[Sandi] They should contain
at least one baked element,
plus two other dessert elements,
such as ice cream or bavarois
to make the perfect bombe.
[Noel] Your celebratory bombe
must be as spectacular on the outside
as it is on the inside.
We're saying "bombe" quite a lot.
I can't get enough of it.
[sing-song] Bombe-biddy-bombe-bombe.
-[sing-song] Bombe-bombe.
-[Sandi] You've got four-and-a-half hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake!
I've had lots of disasters this week
trying to make this.
I'm scared one element will go wrong
and the whole thing will just, like...
literally fall apart.
Celebratory bombe really means
a round dessert.
It's a little bit of luxury, a bombe.
Probably gonna build into a mould.
The critical time
is when they let it all out
'cause you're gonna have
so many different layers,
so many different textures,
they've all got to be set
at the same time.
If one layer collapses,
the probability of all of them collapsing
is very, very high.
I hope that out will come a perfect slice
of every single element.
This is tricky.
[Noel] For Michael, a showstopping bombe
isn't the only cause for celebration.
It's my birthday.
Might just go into the judging
blind drunk, see what happens.
-Hello, Michael.
-Hi, there.
-Happy birthday, Michael.
-Thank you.
Didn't expect to have a birthday in here.
-How old are you?
-I'm 26.
Fantastic age.
Tell us all about your bombe.
[Michael] I am making
a Black Forest bombe.
So, in the middle
we have the cherry jelly,
and on top of that
is a chocolate and almond mousse.
The coating on the outside will be
chocolate and cherry Italian meringue.
-So, you had too much chocolate yesterday.
-[Michael laughs] Yeah.
-It sounds like a lot of chocolate still.
-Sounds like a lot of chocolate, yeah.
[Noel] To balance
the four chocolate elements
in his ornately decorated bombe,
Michael is creating a creamy base layer
of rich cherry cheesecake.
[Prue] What have you used
to get the cherry flavour?
[Michael] I've used freeze-dried cherries.
I struggled with getting it to set
'cause when I was putting cherries in,
I was getting a lot of the juice.
So, I thought freeze-dried might help.
Oh, no.
He's giving nothing away, though.
Well, I think
you're doing everything right.
-Thank you very much.
-[Paul] Good luck.
[Michael] He must be really good at poker.
He eats it and he's like... nothing.
[Sandi] Michael's Black Forest gateau...
Right, rum.
[Sandi] ...isn't the only classic dessert
that's about to be bombed.
I think tiramisu means, er,
"pick me up" in Italian.
'Cause of the coffee.
And I drink a lot of coffee.
Literally, between lessons,
I'm just downing cups of coffee. [laughs]
[Sandi] In Alice's
teacher-friendly tiramisu,
there's espresso coffee in the Génoise
sponge and chocolate mousse.
This will be layered
with pistachio parfait and praline
and a mascarpone cream
with a large measure of spiced rum.
-[Noel] Hello.
-Hello.
-You don't look so flustered today.
-Maybe, it's the, erm,
-the rum that I've put in the...
-You've been drinking.
I just had a couple of, you know...
I had to taste it
and check that it was okay.
There's a lot of pressure
in this competition.
I'm surprised some people
don't just do it smashed.
-Well, shall we?
-Because there's alcohol around.
What would you drink on a night out?
[both] Anything.
[Sandi] To ensure they'll be celebrating
when they unveil their bombes...
[Henry] Whoa! Right.
[Sandi] ...the bakers can use
a sponge lining
to hold its set layers in place.
I'm gonna give it two more minutes.
Two more minutes. Means we've got
two minutes to talk about your birthday.
Whoo!
I do have one of these.
I've got you a Paul
and Prue strippergram.
Amazing.
[Sandi] Priya is also hoping
her sponge will help her
hold her place in the competition.
[Priya] It's a fatless sponge,
so it's light and sponge-y,
but it soaks up flavour well.
This is crème de cassis
blackcurrant liqueur.
I was using Chambord initially,
which is raspberry,
and it just smells like Calpol.
[Noel] Priya's future in the competition
rests on her completing
her liqueur-soaked sponge lining
to hold layers of dark chocolate mousse,
a summer fruits bavarois
and dark chocolate ganache.
She hopes to surround it all
with dozens of hand-piped
raspberry meringue shards.
You worried about time?
No, I'll be okay with this.
That's why I chose mousses,
'cause mousses set a lot quicker...
-You've said this before.
-...than other things.
I know, but I've practised.
I've made so many bombes.
-You've said that before.
-So many bombes have gone in the bin.
This cannot happen today.
I know, it can't.
[Alice] Right, sponges.
[Noel] Whilst most of the bakers
are attempting a safety approach
to bombe construction...
[Henry] I'm now lining it.
-This is so satisfying.
-Okay.
You need to get out more, darling.
-Just leave me alone with my cake.
-Okay.
[Noel] ...Steph's chance
for an historic third Star Baker award
could be far from secure.
[Steph] I'm starting with the chocolate...
What's it called? Mousse.
[Noel] She's chosen
not to line her bombe with sponge.
[Steph] This is round the outside.
It's the main structure.
I'll be chilling it
for as long as possible.
[Noel] If her dark chocolate mousse holds,
it will surround a centre
of rich coffee bavarois
on top of an Amaretto-soaked Joconde base.
And to decorate,
Steph's taking an even bigger risk.
So, I'm going for a chocolate glaze
over the top.
Will the chocolate be shiny?
Erm, probably not hold its shine too well,
only because I'm gonna need
to put it in the fridge,
so it's likely to lose
a little bit of that shine.
Okay.
[Sandi] You've stumped them.
It sounds fine.
I don't think that's stumped,
that's probably like, "Mm..."
Hang on, I've got to do a time call.
Put your sword down.
[laughs] Bakers, you are halfway through.
Halfway through.
-That's cheating.
-I know. Still feels like a win, though.
[Noel] Time is now
the bakers' greatest enemy.
Okay. Need that to be a bit cooler.
[Noel] Every minute their bombes
are out of the chiller
increases the chance of collapse.
[Alice] I'm just gonna leave
my pistachio chilling
before I put the mousse on top.
This is just the coffee bavarois
and I'm just popping it in multiple bowls
in the hope that one of them sets.
The bombe can melt, or not hold its form,
or be generally problematic.
[Noel] But in a bid to speed up
the setting process...
I've got a hot date in the freezer.
[Noel] ...Henry is deploying
a secret weapon.
What are the little circles for?
I'm going to mousse in, circle,
mousse in, circle, mousse in.
So I can freeze all the layers at once,
but separately.
And then demould it,
and then that fits nicely.
-That's very clever.
-Thank you.
-You taught Prue something.
-Yeah.
[Noel] Henry plans to replace
his cardboard with cinnamon meringue
to separate his layers
of Bramley apple mousse
and spiced honey mousse,
which will be encased in a cinnamon sponge
filled with cinnamon Chantilly cream.
[Henry] Here we go.
So, I'm just making my layers.
What the hell's Henry doing?
And the boards are to separate
my layers of mousse,
just so they don't seep into one another.
-Can somebody open the freezer for me?
-Yeah.
Henry's finally gone mad.
Don't breathe.
[Sandi] While Henry attempts
to set all his layers at once...
[Michael] Nailed it.
[Sandi] ...David is taking
an even bigger gamble.
No-one else is doing a sorbet
or an ice cream.
It is quite tough because I'm doing
a sorbet that needs to be frozen,
and then a jelly and a mousse
that just need to be chilled.
So it's a bit risky.
I like risks.
[Sandi] David's sharp lemon
and shiso leaf sorbet
will join a creamy white chocolate
and raspberry mousse,
and a raspberry-and-rose jelly.
[David] My partner's from Bulgaria,
and my brother and sister-in-law
live in Bulgaria,
and that's where roses come from.
Ninety percent of the roses
for all perfume come from Bulgaria,
so I've eaten a lot of rose desserts.
[Noel] Romance is also
in the air for Rosie.
It was my parents'
ruby wedding anniversary last month,
so it's going to be red on the outside.
My colours going through it are a sunset.
[Noel] Rosie's romantic sunset tribute
to Mum and Dad
will feature honey cake, mango bavarois,
lemon and hibiscus mousse,
and caramelised salted white chocolate.
-Forty years married?
-Yes.
I think you deserve, at the very least,
a celebratory bombe.
Yeah. I hope it's not like,
"Happy wedding anniversary.
Here's a puddle."
'Cause that's a bit sad, then.
[Noel] Ninety minutes remaining.
Welcome to the least laddy lads' club.
We're discussing
the setting temperature of gelatine.
A very masculine conversation,
actually.
[Sandi] Wow. I wish I cared.
[all laughing]
-[Noel] With every additional layer...
-[Steph] Very stressed.
[Noel] ...the bakers' bombes
get harder to set.
[Michael] That's cherry jelly
with kirsch in it.
This is a really technical technique
called "tossing it in".
[Rosie] Oh, there is no way of doing
these things without flopping.
[Steph] So, now we have to prepare
the coffee bavarois.
Tastes all right, I think.
I'm sure they'll have a separate opinion.
[Sandi] As well as perfectly
set layers on the inside...
[David] Sorbet out.
[Sandi] ...Prue and Paul
have demanded bombes
that are beautifully decorated
on the outside.
[Priya] I'm gonna start
making my meringues.
Time's going loads quicker than I hoped.
Time's not really your friend, is it?
Time's not my friend.
I spoke to time. Time hates you.
[Steph] We've gone for the nut brittle
first, mirror glaze in a minute.
I'm struggling, big time.
How long have we got?
Bakers, you have one hour left.
One hour remaining.
-No-one's listening to me.
-I've got this. Leave this with me.
Bakers, you have one hour!
One hour left!
Bakers, one hour!
[siren blaring]
Okay.
[exhales heavily]
[Sandi] The bakers now face
an agonising, drawn-out decision.
I'm not worried.
[Sandi] Their bombes need to chill
for long enough to completely set...
I want to leave it in there
for as long as I can.
[Sandi] ...but they also need
to turn them out
with enough time remaining for decoration.
How long would you give yourself
to do this at home?
Couple of days.
-Couple... [laughs]
-A week.
[Alice] Might just have a cup of coffee.
Get some marking done.
I don't get how people
have got nothing to do.
Noughts and crosses.
Yes!
-[Sandi] What's the matter?
-[Steph] Stressed.
[Sandi] Okay, cooking's
all about love, right?
Cooking is about creating
this wonderful thing
for the people that you love.
-Yeah, so...
-That's...
Does that mean I love Paul?
Well, everybody also has challenges
-in the kitchen.
-Okay.
This could be a yoga move.
-Thirty-one minutes.
-Everything is ready to go.
I mean, I can pipe the meringue
on it in ten minutes if I have to.
I'd rather not.
Thirty minutes to go.
[Henry] Right, I need to do some building.
[Steph chuckles]
No idea if it's enough time.
Yes.
[Noel] It's the moment of truth
for Henry's all-in-one setting gamble.
Against all odds, we may have had
a miracle happen here.
[stutters] So many miracles
have occurred right now.
[Noel] But he's not the only one
hoping for a miracle.
Ooh, my heart's going.
Proof is in whether it actually turns out.
[Steph] Panic.
Ooh!
[Henry] If this comes away,
I'm converting to some other religion.
There's cardboard in there somewhere,
that's the problem.
Can everyone avert their eyes?
[Priya] Oh, my God.
[grunts]
Where's the sodding cardboard?
[Alice] Wow.
No.
It's very frozen.
It's there. There it is.
[Priya] Ta-da!
Done, finished. It's all finished.
Oh, God.
[Henry] I need to get this bit
off its cake board and dollop it...
That's the honey mousse.
[David] They look good, actually.
[Alice] Come on.
[Steph] Ah.
Oh, no.
[sighs]
Some of the cake is stuck
to the inside of it.
[Henry] There's the apple.
Oh, my God, the apple's worked.
[David] Mousse.
-Mousse on top of a sorbet.
-[chuckles]
This is madness. [laughs]
I just need that cake to fall out.
[sighs]
Oh, thank God.
[Steph] Ah.
God, I thought it wasn't gonna happen.
If she wins again, Star Baker,
that'll be three in a row.
[David] Go, Steph.
-Do you want that to happen?
-Yeah.
-Secretly, though, you don't.
-Get some records breaking...
I definitely want Steph to win.
[laughs]
-[David] Definitely.
-[Noel] What about you?
[both laughing]
I would like Steph to get
a third Star Baker. Go, Steph.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes,
just 15 minutes.
[sighs] God, this is not fun, is it?
[Henry] This could be the worst moment.
It's gonna go.
Oh, for God's sake.
Right, what temperature are we on?
This is the mirror glaze I'm making.
I don't know whether to take it off,
pull it out...
I can't break the cake.
[Michael] Blowtorching the meringue
helps it to set.
[Alice] Nervousness.
No, that's no good.
[Henry] Oh, God.
Okay, we might be all right.
Right, come on, come on.
Nearly at thirty, so should cover
my bombe completely.
[Alice] Come on.
Wow.
Ooh. Okay.
Oh, played tricks on me
for a moment there, didn't it?
The sorbet inside, it's pretty solid now.
Oh, I love that smell.
[coughs]
[Steph] There's a massacre
of chocolate right now.
Five minutes left.
[David] Dum-dum-dum.
You're not going very fast.
-[Priya] If I break these, I'm in trouble.
-Then it's over.
If I break them, I can't make any more.
I can help with one minute to go.
-What do you want?
-Oh! Okay, right.
I need you to turn the turntable
as I pipe.
Go.
Good luck, Henry. I'm not gonna look.
[Steph] It'll probably go unmirrored.
Things can happen between there and here.
[Henry] Go.
[Priya] How long do we have?
Whatever you're doing,
you need to finish in 60 seconds.
I'm burning the cake board.
Ooh!
Bakers, your time is up.
Please place your bombes at the end
of your work stations. [chuckles]
Sounds weird.
[David] My rose,
it does look a bit like a cabbage,
doesn't it?
Off you pop. Pour yourself a G&T.
-It's your birthday, have two.
-Relax.
Happy birthday, Michael.
-[Priya] Happy birthday!
-[Michael] It's over!
[blows party horn]
We did it.
[Noel] It's judgment time
for the celebratory bombe desserts.
Steph, please will you bring up
your Showstopper?
[Noel] Do you need a hand?
Probably.
Well, your mirror glaze
has certainly worked.
You've got the beautiful shine
off the mirror
with the lines of the white chocolate
with the brittle.
That is stunning.
[Prue] Let's hope it tastes
as good as it looks.
And so, it's a chocolate mousse,
coffee bavarois.
[Prue] The mirror glaze
is so lovely and thin.
The chocolate mousse
is just what a chocolate mousse should be,
it melts in your mouth.
Bavarois is lovely.
I could just eat that all.
[Paul and Sandi chuckle]
That's one of the best things
I've had to eat for a long time.
[Sandi] Yeah!
The mousse is perfect,
and the coffee with the mousse as well,
which is so light.
It's like you've been doing this
for years, just making bombes.
Well done, Steph. Thank you.
Well done.
Yay.
It certainly looks celebratory,
doesn't it?
I don't think I'd have blowtorched it
because the colour's so vibrant.
-Okay.
-[Prue] It spoils it a little bit.
Oh, my goodness.
There is a base of honey cake,
mango bavarois
and lemon and hibiscus mousse.
[Prue] That is certainly colourful.
Mousse is very fool-like,
rather than mousse.
It's not really smooth.
[Prue] They're all
very interesting flavours,
but I don't think the mango
-goes with the others so well.
-Okay.
It's a bit clumsy.
And the colours are...
It reminds me of Noel.
[all laughing]
[Prue] It's really pretty.
Most elegantly done, and unusual.
[Paul] It's beautiful.
[David] The base is
a lemon and pistachio Génoise,
then it's a raspberry-and-rose jelly,
then it's a lemon-and-shiso sorbet,
topped with a raspberry
and white chocolate mousse.
[Prue] Perfect layers.
Mmm.
I've never had shiso in this form
and I can't really taste it,
but the lemony flavour is fantastic.
Try it with that.
[all chuckling]
[Paul] The sorbet's delicious
because it is so sharp.
It hits you right at
the back of the tongue.
Jelly's a little bit too rubbery.
Drop it on the floor, it'd probably
bounce back up and hit me in the face.
Michael, please bring up your Showstopper.
Wow. [chuckles]
It looks like something
straight from a 1970s sweet trolley.
[chuckles]
[Prue] It looks like the Queen Mum's hat
or something.
[laughs]
But let's see what this is like inside.
So, it's got a chocolate mousse,
a cherry jelly and a cherry cheesecake.
Wow.
Michael, the cheesecake is, erm, running.
I don't know whether
it's just not had time to set
-or you didn't have the mixture right.
-Okay.
It does taste like a Black Forest gateau.
The almond kicks in.
Really like the jelly,
which has got terrific punch.
[Paul] I think you've done
a great job with the flavours.
I think the overall look is a bit...
-A bit gaudy.
-Okay.
-[chuckles] It could've been worse.
-Nice.
I can go home happy now.
-Beautiful.
-[Prue] Very beautiful.
It looks as you would expect it to look.
It's tiramisu colours.
The sort of deliberate unevenness
of the steps are just perfect.
[Paul] I just hope that coffee is there
and all the beautiful
-textures are in there as well.
-[Prue] And the rum.
A lot of rum, yeah. [chuckles]
It is a layer of mocha mousse,
coffee-soaked génoise sponge,
a pistachio-praline parfait.
The layers are beautiful and delicate,
and it's held together nicely.
Mmm, it's beautiful.
It's delicate, the coffee
is beautiful with the sponge.
-It's lovely.
-[chuckles]
The pistachio comes through
as a bit of texture as well.
The whole thing's a triumph.
-You've made a tiramisu bombe. Well done.
-Thank you.
Thank you, Alice.
[Priya] You can breathe, Alice.
-You can breathe.
-[exhales]
Priya, would you like to bring up
your Showstopper?
I think it does look quite elegant.
The colours are nicely laid out.
So, I've got summer berry bavarois
and a chocolate mousse, raspberry sponge.
The sponge is actually baked beautifully.
-It's still light, which is nice.
-[Prue] Mmm.
Nice chocolate mousse.
My only quarrel with the whole thing was
that the chocolate mousse is very sweet.
The raspberry is not.
-It doesn't hold up against the chocolate.
-Okay.
I think if you can instruct diners to eat
first the bavarois and then the mousse,
they'd be happy,
but not the other way around.
Okay.
[Paul] Thank you, Priya.
[exhales heavily]
Henry, would you like to bring up
your Showstopper, please?
[Prue] It's very simple, very elegant.
-It looks like an igloo.
-Igloo.
Okay. [chuckles]
[Paul] That's been scorched.
[Henry] Inside, it's a cinnamon sponge,
and there are two layers
of a slightly-spiced honey mousse,
and one layer of Bramley apple mousse.
Hmm.
The cake's a bit tough.
Hunting down the apple.
If you don't get the apple,
-all you get is cinnamon.
-Right.
You needed something else in there as well
'cause it's a bit bland.
And the cake is very stodgy.
Sort of disappointing.
[softly] You okay?
[Henry sighs]
You seemed to be in your element today.
-Yes. Oh, I loved this.
-[Noel] You loved this.
This was heaven.
But they started so badly with
the meringues that I was despairing,
-but anyway, they've pulled themselves up.
-[chuckles]
But I tell you what I found
most disappointing,
this is a baking competition,
and both Rosie and Henry
made dreadful cakes.
Coming into this, Priya and Michael
were in a little bit of trouble,
and I think Rosie, and certainly Henry,
has fallen into that situation
where you end up with four people,
you've got Priya, Michael,
Henry and Rosie are all in trouble.
The two moments when Prue most went "yum",
was the tiramisu by Alice, and Steph's.
Well, Steph set the bar pretty high.
I thought you were gonna
give her a handshake.
It was perfection.
-[Noel] Right.
-I would say the same about Alice's.
But Alice came first in Technical.
I think both those two guys
are in line for Star Baker.
[Prue] What about David?
Could he not get Star Baker?
I mean, he came second in Technical,
and this is absolutely lovely.
The only trouble is the jelly.
-The jelly was tough.
-Jelly was terrible.
Even I can make jelly.
How do you make bad jelly?
By putting too much gelatine in.
You'd probably use a packet
where it's all measured up for you.
-How dare you!
-[all laughing]
And suspended fruit in it as well
at your birthday.
-How dare you tell the truth!
-This is unbelievable.
Well done, bakers.
That's the end of dessert week.
I don't think I've ever heard
Prue say "yum" quite so many times,
so well done.
Er, it's my privilege and pleasure
to announce the Star Baker.
Star Baker this week is...
-Steph.
-[clapping]
[Alice] You're so good, girl.
You. You.
Well done.
Doing it for the fringes.
Oh, bakers, unfortunately,
that means I've got the horrible job
of announcing the person who's going home,
and this gets tougher and tougher.
The person who's leaving us
this week is...
-Priya.
-[whispers] Oh.
[Priya] Oh.
Girl.
Oh.
[sighs]
Oh, I've learnt so much, Paul.
I have. I've learnt so much.
It's felt like such a privilege
to be in the tent and...
[sighs and stutters]
I want to make sure...
Of course I'm gonna cry.
Of course I'll cry.
But I left work a year ago,
and I was kind of a bit stuck,
and I thought, "I'm just
gonna do the things that I enjoy."
And do you know what it's meant?
It's meant to me that...
if you just start with the things
that you really enjoy, you can't go wrong.
God, I need to give her
a massive, massive hug now.
I spent the past hour before that
prepping my little goodbyes.
I was fully prepped.
I knew what I was gonna nick
from the tent.
I knew I was gonna nick the apron,
I was gonna get a spoon,
maybe a bowl, a whisk.
I think I was definitely flirting
with the bottom there, wasn't I?
Giving the bottom
a cheeky wink. [chuckles]
-[Prue] Well done, little Steph.
-[Steph] Thank you.
-[Prue] You can't go on doing this.
-I know.
[sputters]
I was convinced that
Alice would've had that then.
I'm just like, "Oh, what?"
Hopefully now, three times in a row,
maybe it'll sink in how great she is.
[indistinct conversations]
-[Steph's mum over phone] Hello?
-[Steph] Hi, Mum.
Erm, I just got Star Baker again.
-Oh, my God, Steph.
-I know.
-Bloody hell!
-Stop swearing!
-Sorry! [laughs]
-[laughs]